new role: plan_stash (#8)
redhat-cop/cloud.terraform_ops: roles/module_plan_stash/README.md

# module_plan_stash

> A role to handle the base64 encoding or decoding of a terraform plan file using cloud.terraform.plan_stash module.

Reviewer: Regarding to what has been implemented this is not true, the role is doing more that just stashing the terraform plan file, it also generate the plan using `cloud.terraform.terraform` but this should be exclude from the scope

Author: removed

This role can be used to
1. Perform base64-encoding of a terraform plan file and saves it into playbook execution stats similar to M(ansible.builtin.set_stats) module.
2. Perform base64-decoding of a terraform plan file from a variable defined into ansible facts and write them
    into a file specified by the user.

## Role Variables

Name | Description | Type | Default | Required
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
module_plan_stash_operation|Whether to base64-encode the terraform plan file and saves it into ansible stats or base64-decode data from variable/binary_data to create a terraform plan file or apply the specific terraform plan file. Choices: 'stash', 'load'.|string|N/A|true

> module_plan_stash_plan_file_path|-The path to the terraform plan file. -When I(module_plan_stash_generate_plan_file=True), I(module_plan_stash_plan_file_path) will be used to store generated plan file.|path|N/A|true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
module_plan_stash_plan_file_path|-The path to the terraform plan file.|path|N/A|true
```
This will be used for both encoding/decoding plan file depending on the value set into `module_plan_stash_operation`

> module_plan_stash_tf_project_path|The path to terraform project directory containing configuration file|path|false|false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is not required, we just need a path to a plan file from/to which the data will be decoded/encoded

Author: removed `module_plan_stash_tf_project_path`

module_plan_stash_var_name| -When O(state=stash), this parameter defines the variable name to be set into stats. -When O(state=load), this parameter defines the variable from ansible facts containing the base64-encoded data of the terraform plan file. -Variables must start with a letter or underscore character, and contain only letters, numbers and underscores.|string|terraform_plan|false

> module_plan_stash_generate_plan_file|Whether to generate plan file from Terraform config to use when doing stash plan|bool|false|false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is a useless parameter

> Note:
> - When I(module_plan_stash_generate_plan_file_val) is set to False, I(terraform_existing_plan_url) must be provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed

## Example Playbook

Below example describes scenario of using the role in Ansible Controller workflow templates.

> First create playbook below to stash the terraform plan and store it to ansible stats into variable "my_test_stashed_plan"
> ```
> ---
> - name: Test the cloud.terraform_ops.module_plan_stash role (stash functionality)
>   hosts: localhost
>   gather_facts: true
>   vars:
>     terraform_existing_config_url: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/url/of/stored/config/file/main.tf"
>     terraform_existing_plan_url: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/url/of/stored/plan/file/myplan.tfplan"
>   tasks:
>     - name: Create temporary directory to run terraform configuration
>       ansible.builtin.tempfile:
>         state: directory
>       register: tfdir
> 
>     - name: Block for cloud.terraform_ops.module_plan_stash example (stash functionality)
>       block:
>         - name: Download Terraform configuration
>           uri:
>             dest: "{{ tfdir.path }}/main.tf"
>             url: "{{ terraform_existing_config_url }}"
>           when: terraform_existing_config_url is defined and terraform_existing_config_url | length != 0
> 
>         - name: Download terraform plan file and store to temp dir as "myplan.tfplan"
>           uri:
>              dest: "{{ tfdir.path }}/myplan.tfplan"
>              url: "{{ terraform_existing_plan_url }}"
>           when: terraform_existing_plan_url is defined and terraform_existing_plan_url | length != 0
> 
>         - name: Stash the Terraform plan file into variable "my_test_stashed_plan"
>           ansible.builtin.include_role:
>             name: cloud.terraform_ops.module_plan_stash
>           vars:
>             module_plan_stash_operation: stash
>             module_plan_stash_var_name: "my_test_stashed_plan" # if not provided, defaults to "terraform_plan"
>             module_plan_stash_plan_file_path: "{{ tfdir.path }}/myplan.tfplan"
>             module_plan_stash_tf_project_path: "{{ tfdir.path }}"
>             module_plan_stash_generate_plan_file: false # set to I(true) to generate new plan file from config file, this will ignore plan file provided using "terraform_existing_plan_url"
> 
>       always:
> 
>         - name: Delete temporary directory
>           ansible.builtin.file:
>             state: absent
>             path: "{{ tfdir.path }}"
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First create playbook below to stash the terraform plan and store it to ansible stats into variable "my_test_stashed_plan"
```
---
- hosts: localhost
  gather_facts: false

  roles:
    - role: cloud.terraform_ops.module_plan_stash
      module_plan_stash_operation: stash
      module_plan_stash_var_name: "my_test_stashed_plan" # if not provided, defaults to "terraform_plan"
      module_plan_stash_plan_file_path: "path_to_my_terraform_plan_file"
```
```

Author: fixed example

Now, to use the stashed variable containing Terraform plan, create the playbook below
```

> ---
> - name: Test the cloud.terraform_ops.module_plan_stash role (load functionality)
>   hosts: localhost
>   gather_facts: true
>   vars:
>   tasks:
>     - name: Create temporary directory to run terraform configuration
>       ansible.builtin.tempfile:
>         suffix: '.tf'
>         state: directory
>       register: tfdir
> 
>     - name: Block for cloud.terraform_ops.module_plan_stash example (load functionality)
>       block:
>         - name: Stash the Terraform plan file into variable "my_test_stashed_plan"
>           ansible.builtin.include_role:
>             name: cloud.terraform_ops.module_plan_stash
>           vars:
>             module_plan_stash_operation: load
>             module_plan_stash_var_name: "my_test_stashed_plan" # if not provided, defaults to "terraform_plan"
>             module_plan_stash_plan_file_path: "{{ tfdir.path }}/loaded_plan_file.tfplan"
> 
>       always:
>         - name: Delete temporary directory
>           ansible.builtin.file:
>             state: absent
>             path: "{{ tfdir.path }}"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---
- name: Test the cloud.terraform_ops.module_plan_stash role (load functionality)
  hosts: localhost
  gather_facts: false
  
  roles:
    - roles: cloud.terraform_ops.module_plan_stash
      module_plan_stash_operation: load
      module_plan_stash_var_name: "my_test_stashed_plan" # if not provided, defaults to "terraform_plan"
      module_plan_stash_plan_file_path: "path_to_my_plan_file"

      always:
        - name: Delete temporary directory
          ansible.builtin.file:
            state: absent
            path: "{{ tfdir.path }}"
```

> # module_plan_stash

Reviewer 2: Could we rename this to just "plan_stash"? Some of the options are pretty wordy to type.

Author: renamed

2. Perform base64-decoding of a terraform plan file from a variable defined into ansible facts and write them
    into a file specified by the user.

## Role Variables

Name | Description | Type | Default | Required
--- | --- | --- | --- | ---
module_plan_stash_operation|Whether to base64-encode the terraform plan file and save it into ansible stats or base64-decode data from variable/binary_data to create a terraform plan file. Choices: 'stash', 'load'.|string|N/A|true
module_plan_stash_plan_file_path|-The path to the terraform plan file. -This will be used for both encoding/decoding plan file depending on the value set into module_plan_stash_operation.|path|N/A|true
module_plan_stash_var_name| -When O(state=stash), this parameter defines the variable name to be set into stats. -When O(state=load), this parameter defines the variable from ansible facts containing the base64-encoded data of the terraform plan file. -Variables must start with a letter or underscore character, and contain only letters, numbers and underscores.|string|terraform_plan|false

> ## Example Playbook

Author: something like this right?
I'll do more testing before adding it to docs

```
---
- name: Test the cloud.terraform_ops.plan_stash role (load functionality)
  hosts: localhost
  gather_facts: false
  vars:
    plan_stash_var_name_val: my_test_stashed_plan
    plan_stash_plan_file_path_val: /path/to/plan/file/to/load/create/loaded.tfplan
  tasks:
    - name: Load the Terraform plan from variable "{{ plan_stash_var_name_val }}" into file "{{ plan_stash_plan_file_path_val }}"
      ansible.builtin.include_role:
        name: cloud.terraform_ops.plan_stash
      vars:
        plan_stash_operation: load
        plan_stash_var_name: "{{ plan_stash_var_name_val }}" # if not provided, defaults to "terraform_plan"
        plan_stash_plan_file_path: "{{ plan_stash_plan_file_path_val }}" #"path_to_my_plan_file"

    - name: Apply the Terraform configuration
      cloud.terraform.terraform:
        project_path: "."
        force_init: true
        plan_file: "{{ plan_stash_plan_file_path_val }}"
        state: present
```

> ## Example Playbook

Author: added examples.
